# CutiePi

Here you can find all the projects I did or am currently working on with my little Raspberry Pi 2B+, aka "CutiePi"!
I am currently running most of them as Docker Containers, this page will be dedicated to the bare metal installs.

## Operating System
I use Raspberry Pi OS Lite, a Debian ARM based distro and the official OS from the Raspberry Pi Foundation.

## DNS
### PiHole
I use PiHole as a DNS-based blocker from ads and malicious sites/tracking sites.
I configured my Pi as local DNS Server on my router, so all new clients in my network automatically use it.
### Unbound DNS
I use Unbound as a recursive DNS Server. 
I followed the installation instructions from here: https://docs.pi-hole.net/guides/dns/unbound/
### DNSSEC
I enabled the following security options in `/etc/unbound/unbound.conf.d/`:
```
server:
    harden-below-nxdomain: yes
    harden-referral-path: yes
    harden-algo-downgrade: no
    use-caps-for-id: no
    hide-identity: yes
    hide-version: yes
```
To generate DNSSEC keys, run `sudo unbound-control-setup`, then restart unbound with `sudo systemctl restart unbound.service`.
Using `dig +dnssec A www.dnssec.cz` you can test if DNSSEC works. The result should contain the `ad` parameter.

## VPN Server
I used PiVPN to turn my Pi into a VPN Server with Wireguard protocol. Now I can establish a secure connection into my home network at any time.
After the inital installation, clients can be added with `pivpn -a`. I added my phone and laptop as a client.
I downloaded the Wireguard App on my phone, then generated a QR code with `pivpn -qr` to establish the VPN tunnel.
For my laptop, I copied the .conf file generated by PiVPN to my Laptop using secure copy:
`scp lily@cutiepi:configs/laptop.conf ~/pivpn`.
I changed the Wireguard default port, as some networks block default VPN ports. Make sure to do this before generating the configs files.
Also make sure to enable port forwarding for Pi on your router, so the port is accessible from outside the local network.

### DynDNS
As my ISP changes my public IP address, I need a dynamic DNS client to make sure I can always reach my VPN Server.
I registered with "NoIp" for a DynDNS Service and installed their DynDNS client software on my Pi.
I added the cronjob `@reboot /usr/local/bin/noip2` to my crontab to make it automatically starts on reboot.

## Syncthing
